Since the global
financial crisis,
financial technology
has emerged as
a leading industry for
innovation and growth.
The number of financial
technology companies
founded annually has
grown significantly,
from around a 178 in 2008
to around 700 in 2014.
By the year end 2016,
there were over 1000 firms
that classified themselves as
financial technology
firms operating globally.
The total investment in
financial technology
companies has
grown five-fold since 2014,
from around 18.9 billion in
2013 to around 110
billion in 2018.
The number of investment
deals involving
financial technology
firms has more
than doubled in
the last five years.
Over a 100 billion dollars
of new investment money has
flown into financial
technology firms
since the financial crisis.
An interesting way to understand
the growth in
financial technology
as an area for investment and
also for consumer attention,
is to leverage the power of
technology to study
attention in this space.
So what we've done here is
we've looked at Google trends
for the search term
FinTech over time.
What you'll see is there's
a significant uptake
in consumer attention around
financial technology firms,
or firms relating to
financial technology that has
occurred in the last five years.
As these trends illustrate,
financial technology has
really become a hot space
from consumer attention as
well in investment perspective.
Storied financial firms
like Goldman Sachs,
individuals like
Warren Buffett are
substantially investing in
the financial technology space.
Emerging superpowers
like China and India,
are leveraging
technology to improve
the attractiveness
of their country
for investment and
entrepreneurship.
Trying to take an incredibly
inclusive and innovative
stand towards
new kinds of industries and
new kinds of
disruptive technology,
in a way that makes the
regulatory burdens that exist
here in the United States
and in other countries that
have taken a less permissive
stand towards FinTech,
less attractive countries from
the perspective of
entrepreneurs in these spaces.
Developing countries those
like Latin America and Africa,
are really hoping
to use the power of
technology to be able
to provide more to
their citizens and to better
serve consumers who have
traditionally lacked access
to basic financial services.
The real benefit of
financial technology is
that it improves banking
access for consumers.
Mobile banking
allows consumers to
interact with banks conveniently,
for example those who live
far from traditional banks.
Crowdfunding allows
entrepreneurs without access to
conventional loans to fund
their new businesses,
to be able to get funding for
these businesses from
crowdsourcing investments.
In the United States today,
around 20 percent of
consumers are reportedly
underbanked and around 7 percent
of consumers are
entirely unbanked.
This means that
unbanked consumers who have
no access to the traditional
financial sector,
and underbanked consumers
who may have access to
the traditional financial sector
but tend regularly to turn
to expensive financial services
provider alternatives like
payday lenders and check
cashing facilities.
For these consumers,
a real benefit
of FinTech is the ability
to create a much more
inclusive financial sector.
One that is able to best
serve and cheaply serve
consumers in a secure
and efficient way.
In the United States,
it's relatively rare in
that only 7 percent of consumers
in the US are unbanked.
These numbers are significantly
higher in developing countries,
where consumers
don't have access to
traditional financial
service providers but
incidentally often
do have smartphones.
So being able to provide
more financial services to
consumers through
the technologies
that they already have access to,
will be a way to
create a globally
more inclusive financial sector,
and to bring the efficiencies of
technological innovation
to populations
that need them the most.
Another real benefit of
financial technology providers,
is that they bring
more efficiency
to the financial sector.
For example, there are financial
technology innovators who through
payment apps or remittance
services or
crowdfunding platforms,
have made it much easier,
and faster, and cheaper,
to be able to get access to
basic financial services.